>> Kyle Simpson: Now, I've been
referring to kinds of values, but
we need to get a little bit
more specific about that.
Because there's a term in
programming language speak for
the kind of a value, and
it's referred to as its type.
A value that is a kind of number,
that's gonna have a type called number,
and one that's a string called string.
So the typeof that you see here placed in
front of the number 42, or the typeof,
line 3, placed in front of that string,
"Kyle", that's actually also an operator.
typeof is a unary operator
where we give it a thing and
it tells us what kind of
thing we're dealing with.
And this isn't that important
when you're dealing with,
you wouldn't really do typeof 42,
because you already know it's a number.
But again,
when we talk about variables in a moment,
you'll see that we may not
know what's in some variable.
And a typeof is really important to
help us know, I have a number here so
I can do math with it, or I have a string
in this one and I don't wanna do math,
I wanna do sort of printing messages
to a console or something like that.
So you'll notice that each of
these values we've talked about
have a different kind of return
result from this type of operator.
And down at the bottom you'll notice
that we have kind of some special cases
where remember null was one of those
empty values similar to undefined, but
here, the type of operator, line 7 versus
line 12, it returns us different results.
For undefined,
it gives us that string undefined,
but for the null, it perplexingly
gives us the string object.
And really, that's just a bug from
20 plus years ago in JavaScript.
Unfortunately the way the web works,
we can't really always fix bugs in
a language,
because then we might break other stuff.
So that's just something that
we've had to work around for
the last 23 something years now.
But notice line 13, we said that's
an array, but when I do a typeof,
I don't get a specific kind of
result that tells me it's an array,
it just says it's an object.
That's not a bug, that's just a less
specific kind of an answer than we might
prefer to get, we might have liked for
it to say array.
But what we're getting out there is that
there are values that can be sort of
subtypes, an array which has
a very specific behavior.
Remember the numeric positioning, but
it's a subtype of the object type.
So that's why it's returning to us an
object, and it turns out there are other
operations that we can do to
figure out more specifically.
Okay, well, you tell me it's an object,
but is it a regular object or
is it a special array object.
We can determine those things,
we can distinguish those things
using other kinds of operations.
This is something you're gonna need to
do in almost every programming language
that you'll ever write in,
is you're gonna have values.
And again, values have different
things that we do with them.
We do math with something like 3.14.
And we do printing to a string,
to the console or
a file if we have
something like string Kyle.
Those are all distinguishing things that
we have to do in any program language.
And they're all basically under this
umbrella of determining the type
of the value we're dealing with.